hi David child coming to you from next
level guitar calm how are you today we
are having fun here we've been granted
access to a private collectors archive
of guitars and man he has some cool cool
guitars we're having a lot of fun and we
want to say a big thank you for letting
us come down and check them out and play
them and we're trying to play these as
delicately as possible a lot of them
have been sitting in cases for years and
years we're trying to get them and tuned
up as close as we can and be very
delicate playing them but just to give
you an idea of some of the cool stuff
that's out there what I have here is a
60s mid 60's Rickenbacker for 50 12 for
50 and it's a 12 string guitar so each
of the strings has another lighter
string which is an octave tuned an
octave away octave higher and you have
that 12 string sound now this guitar is
in I believe this is the fire globe
finish could be the autumn glow but I
believe it's the fire glow and he did a
beautiful job on the finish of this
guitar and as you see they carried the
finish up to the headstock and if I flip
the guitar over you see it's very thin
and it also the finish is carried
through on the neck and on the back of
the headstock okay and this is to set
the neck through so there's a piece of
wood though the neck or one piece that
goes through this whole guitar body very
cool Rickenbacker in the 60s and big
name big band players use these
instruments guys like well the Beatles
Tom Petty who else help me out the Byrds
all kinds of big name players use these
instruments um this one is fairly
original the bridge did have to be
replaced
here's the original bridge it didn't
have to be but the owner felt with as
you know anyone that played 12 strings
they are a bear to tune and the
intonation and keeping it in tune with
this bridge it's very difficult so it
made it pretty much almost impossible to
play so they retrofitted it with another
bridge here's the original bridge that
went right in there like that you could
see it's kind of curvy and
just lots of problems with that and also
the tuners were changed but just
modified not not like holes holes
drilled or anything in the woods but
yeah but just again to make it a little
bit more user-friendly and playable yeah
very unusual setup of the tuners as you
can see for the 12 strings you have on
the back of the headstock and on the
side to get you know basically two
strings for each you know peg and the
body of this guitar is referred to as a
crested wave crested wave body very cool
terms to pick up model because these
pickups these look like the original
pickups and they were referred to as the
toaster pickups because they kind of
look like you would put your bread right
in there that kind of looks like the top
of a toaster looking down so very cool
very vintage very uh neat twelve string
guitar and let's play a little bit you
can hear just how beautiful
you
really
through some of the pickup combinations
very nice kind of for picking
you
very very cool sounds I'm I'm plugged
straight in to this 70s Fender deluxe
reverb very bright sound very cool
another thing to keep in mind to this
this particular guitar is a very
stripped-down model they might be a
little off the radar the more desirable
models in these Rickenbacker 12-string
side you know the bindings and some
other features this one's pretty
stripped down but I'm still within reach
as far as collectability and price for
most the collectors so it's kind of like
their no-frills version but it has all
the cool things with the toaster pickups
and whatnot so check this out
Rickenbacker for fifty twelve I'm David
Tao
thanks for the for the collector for
letting us come in today and raid his
archive we're having lots of fun and go
to our website next level guitar calm
we'll see you soon